#labels Featured
CAIRN is a modular copy and restore program for the imaging of a
computer.  It can copy every file on a computer and gather information
on how to recreate it from bare metal. CAIRN is meant to be primarily a
network oriented restore program, but is also flexible enough to boot
from any possible method.

CAIRN can also be used to clone one machine to many. It has the
intelligence to adjust the image to fit the machine being restored. It 
can adjust partition sizes, device types of drives and all the internal
configuration of the operating system to match up with the changes.

CAIRN is built on a highly modular system to accomodate the varying
requirements of different operating systems. Every single step of the
process is a separate module. The order of steps can be varied or
rearranged as needed to fit the environment of the machine being restored. 

CAIRN's highly flexable nature also allows for onsite tweaking of 
its code. Custom modules of code can be created on the fly. These can
be used to perform custom setup that your machine or image needs. The
CAIRN framework allows for easily inserting your custom code into the
right spot in the order of operations. A 'module of code' can either be
a full python module file or a few lines of shell scripting. The benefit
of this flexability is that you can run those two commands that are
required for your particular hardware in the exact right spot within
the copy or restore procedure.

But having such flexability does not compromise the ease of use of CAIRN.
CAIRN is organized around a multi-level interface. Each level increasing
the complexity exposed to the user. The user is free to use parts of any
of the interfaces in any mixture. The simplest level relies on CAIRN
choosing the correct course of action. While the most complex level of
the interface is only useful for debugging the program itself.

The core operating systems that are planned to be supported are Linux,
Mac OS/X, Microsoft Windows, and Solaris. Other operating systems can be
added as time and desire permits. Currently only Linux is supported, but
the other operating systems are under development.

Besides having a copy and restore program, CAIRN also has a utility
program that the user can control multiple CAIRN restores from. 
DHCP and PXE are used to network boot a machine into a small boot
environment and from there CAIRN will restore the machine. This is also
how a user will easily customize the behavior of the CAIRN restore program.