CAIRN - Copy And Intelligently Restore via Network

CAIRN is a modular copy and restore program for the imaging of a
computer.  It can copy every file on a computer and gather information
on how to recreate it from bare metal. CAIRN is primarily a network
oriented restore program, but is also flexible enough to boot from any
possible method.

CAIRN is a completely modular system so any operating system should be
supportable. Every single step needed to restore all the files is a
separate module. The order of steps can be varied or rearranged as
needed to fit the environment of the machine being restored. CAIRN can
also be used to clone one machine to many. It has the intelligence to
adjust the image to fit the machine being restored. It can adjust
partition sizes, device types of drives and all the internal
configuration of the operating system to match up with the changes.

Besides having a copy and restore program, CAIRN will also have a
utility program that the user can control multiple CAIRN restores from. 
DHCP and PXE are used to network boot a machine into a small boot
environment and from there CAIRN will restore the machine. This will
also be the method in which the behavior of the CAIRN restore program
will be customized. 

The core operating systems that will be supported are Linux, Mac OS/X, 
and Microsoft Windows. Besides the boot environment (which may vary with 
operating system being restored, but will be primarily Linux) the 
copy and restore program will be written in Python. The utility 
program will be written in a combination of C, C++, and Python.

